>> Jen Kramer: I had a couple of things
that came up here that I wanted to talk
with you about, a couple of concepts.
So as we have learned this much CSS so
far and there's a lot of
concepts that I haven't even talked
about that are really important in CSS.
So I wanted to in my code
point out a few things that
may come up as you were writing your CSS.
So for example,
here on line ten I start with a H-1, okay.
And then the H-1 here for my styling,
I'd say that it has a dotted
red border with white text.
Okay, as you know,
that's not how it looked, right?
That's because later in my document
I have another H1 down here, okay.
And this H1 says make
the background color black, and
the text align,
make it centered, all right?
And so, what browsers will do,
very happily,
is it will take those two styles and
mush them together.
No problem.
It'll go ahead and
do all those things to the H1 Okay?
What happens though if I said this?
Up here on the h1,
I said a five pixel dotted red border,
and then down here later
on my next stage one,
I said instead a five
pixel dashed Blue border.
>> Jen Kramer: What's gonna happen now?
I have the border in both places?
How many people say it's gonna
be the red one with the dots?
>> Jen Kramer: How many people say it's
gonna be the red one with the dashes?
All right, we're about splitting
the classroom between red,
blue and nothing, okay?
Yeah, Genesis.
>> Student1: Ever combine, and
it'll be red and blue like so.
>> Jen Kramer: Like red and
blue, but dotted am dashed,
that would be, that would be awesome.
But no, unfortunately.
Yeah, that would be
really be awesome though.
That'd be kind of fun.
So what happens here?
This is the C in CSS.
What is C and CSS stands for?
>> Student1: Cascading
>> Jen Kramer: The cascading
style sheet right.
This is a style sheet.
The C is the cascade part.
So cascade means, if we list
a style earlier in the document and
we say it's one way, and
then later in the document,
we say it's different way, the thing
that's later in the document wins.
Okay, yes?
>> Student3: Like he was saying,
if the first one was more specific,
will that win, or
was it always just the later one?
>> Jen Kramer: It gets more
complicated than that.
>> Student3: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so the classes and
IDs, and we can make this super
complicated, but for right now,
if it's later in the document,
the thing that's later in the document,
that's what's gonna win.
So all right, so that's the first thing.
The second thing is, by the way.
If you do this and you write an H1 early
in your document, and you write an H1
later in your document and your
document's only 50 lines of code long.
You're a terrible programmer.
Okay?
Don't do this,
cuz you're just going to confuse yourself.
So, what I would recommend that you do.
In a case like that,
this is very easy to do.
You're you're working away today,
right you're H1 style.
Later on, you go, yeah,
I need an h1 and you write it later.
Just combine them, because it'll make your
code much more easy to maintain over time.
Go ahead and go back on up and
then paste in what you've got here.
Okay, now so I wanna hid and I did what
I just said to do, I combined my styles.
Anyone see any issues with the code
that I just combined here?
Yeah.
>> Student2: Two different borders.
>> Jen Kramer: I have two different
borders now within the same style, right?
Which one wins?
First never wins, last wins.
Last wins in CSS, okay?
So in this case,
the border will be dashed in blue.
And again, if you do this,
especially in one style like this,
you're a terrible programmer.
Don't do this.
So pick one and
get rid of the other one because
otherwise you just confuse yourself.
So what do you really want?
I want a dotted red border so
that -blue thing is gone.